This video contains the exercise associated with the previous video.
So what you want to do here is start from this distribution.
Y equals two to the power of x where x is distributed or is drawn from a normal distribution with a
mean of zero and a variance of 1.
That's what all this funny looking notation means.
So x is drawn from a normal distribution with a mean of 0 and a variance of 1.
Now the histogram of this distribution this value Y is going to look something like this.
You can see this is definitely not normally distributed.
This is not Gaussian distributed and then you are going to apply an algorithm you will implement an
algorithm that I will explain on the next slide that will convert this distribution so convert all of
these numbers into this distribution which as you can see is basically a perfect Gaussian and looks
extremely normal.
Well okay it's actually technically not a gaussian but it is a very normal looking or Gaussian looking
distribution.
So how do you do this.
How do you transform this distribution into this distribution.
So the way that you do that it's a three step procedure.
You have to rank transform the data and rank transforming the data means to convert all of the values
in the data set into integers according to their location in the data set by magnitude.
So rank transform the data and then you want to normalize the data to so normalize the rank transform
data to between minus 1 and plus 1 and then apply the inverse hyperbolic tangent.
Now I have to warn you this is a little bit of a tricky exercise.
It is relatively difficult compared to a lot of the other exercises that I have in this course.
So it's possible that you will need to do a little bit of testing and maybe a little bit of Internet
searches to completely solve this exercise on your own.
Now if you like you can pause the video now and try to get as far as you can in a moment.
I'm going to reveal a couple of hints it's going to be one coding hint per item here.
So if you don't want the hints then this is your last opportunity to pause the video.
Okay so here are the hints the hints are you can rank transform the data by applying the function rank
data.
This comes from the Sy pi dot stats module so you can write from sci pirate stats.
Import rank data and then apply this function.
And then the hint for normalizing the ranks to a range of minus 1 to 1 is to take the output of the
rank data function so the rank transform data first normalize these to a maximum value of 1 multiplied
by 2 and well it's not exactly everything you need to do first step 2 but that will get you part of
the way.
And then for this third step.
Taking the inverse hyperbolic tangent function you need to be careful to watch out for the exact values
of minus 1 and 1.
These are not valid inputs into the inverse hyperbolic tangent function so you will need to do something
to make sure that your dataset does not contain exactly minus 1 and exactly plus 1.
All right so with those hints Good luck working through this code.
And now I'm going to switch to Python and show you my solution so I'm going to use num pi matte plot
lib and this rank data function from the CI pi dot stats module.
So I'm gonna start by creating the distribution of two to the power of X..
So this is going to be a bridge data I'll call this variable a rich data two to the power of num Pieta
random Rand N and then in numbers here now in the slides I showed you this like funny little squiggly
thing thing and the funny looking end and all that stuff all that notation was really just there to
introduce you to the notation that is often used for drawing from different kinds of distributions.
So in fact you don't really need to do anything special with the code to get the desired distribution.
So let's start by just plotting these data and seeing what these look like.
So I'm going to create a figure with Peel T dot subplots and I'll make this a one by two geometry and
I'm gonna start by setting the first access to contain a histogram of the original data with 30 bins
and I'll set the x axis.
So set X label to b value and the y axis label is going to be the count loops not to label this should
be y label.
Okay there you go.
So far you know this is the easiest part of the assignment but it's good to start somewhere.
Okay.
And then let's see I'd appeal to that show down here.
All right.
And this does look more or less like what I showed in the slides.
So I think this part is pretty good.
So let's see what we want to do now is rank transform the data.
So I'm gonna say rank data equals and then the function is also called rank data bridge data.
And actually you know I'm gonna take a moment to introduce you to the rank transform and what that function
and rank data actually does.
So let's say we have actually I'll just write it out like this.
We don't need extra variables so rank data.
I'm going to input 1 1 point 1 one point one one and one.
I don't know what number that is but it's a really large number.
So if you look at these numbers you can see that these numbers are really really close to each other.
And this number is really large and it's really really far away from these other numbers.
But when I rank transform the data I just get one two three four and then maybe this wasn't the best
example because then you think that it's just ordering the numbers by their index so I'm going to put
one point one one in the beginning.
So now you can see that the output of this ranked data function is 3 1 2 4 and this basically means
that this first number is the third largest number in the set the second number is the first largest
number instead of the smallest number in the set.
This is the second largest and this is the fourth largest number in the set so rank transforming the
data is actually throwing out all of the absolute magnitudes and just reordering according to the rank.
Okay.
So that was this step.
So we get rank data and now let's see I'm going to create a histogram of this so you can see what this
looks like.
So the second subplot and then this is going to be rank underscore data.
So all of the numbers between 0 and 500 because there 500 numbers are equally likely to occur.
So with this rank data we need to normalize this to between minus 1 and plus 1.
So I will right normalize to minus one to plus 1.
So I'll create a new variable I'll call that Norm data equals.
Now the hint that I gave was to divide by the maximum.
So I'm going to say rank underscored data divided by the maximum of rank rank underscore data and then
let's see what this histogram looks like for Norm data.
All right.
So now you can see that these data range between 0 and plus 1.
So what I'm going to do now is multiply this whole thing by two and then we get a range from 0 to 2.
But we want a range from minus one to plus one.
So therefore we simply subtract one from this distribution.
And now we get numbers from zero.
Sorry minus one to plus one OK.
And then we need to do the third step which is to apply the inverse hyper ball hype per Bolick trends
form.
Okay.
And then I will call this trends data for transformed data.
And that will be none pi dot arc 10 H.
That is the function of the norm data.
Okay.
So we get an error.
It says divide by zero and let's see what this distribution looks like anyway.
So I'll say trends data huh.
And now we don't get any values.
So something is going wrong.
We can see a supply range something with infinity.
I'm going to dump out all of these numbers so we can see what they look like.
So print trends data and I think it will.
Yeah I will print out all of them.
Okay so here we see a bunch of numbers.
This is all fine.
There is one infinity there.
And this is related to the third hint that I gave in the slides and that was that the inverse hyperbolic
tangent or the hyperbolic arc tangent is valid for most numbers you know for many numbers except if
they are exactly minus one where we have minus infinity or plus one where we get plus infinity.
So what we need to do up here is basically change the rank data so that we don't get a value of exactly
minus one or exactly one.
So there's a few ways to do this.
My strategy here is going to be to add another number to these data.
So I'm gonna say rank data equals num pi dot append and this is a function I've introduced previously
in this course I'm going to say the rank data with the maximum of the rank data plus 1.
So what I'm doing here is actually making this data set be one point longer.
So this is 500 data points.
This is now going to be five hundred and one data point and the largest data point is going to be larger
than the largest value in the original data set.
And that means that when these data get normalized here we divide by the maximum value but then we take
off the very last value which is a value that actually didn't come from the data set.
This is just something I artificially added.
So here I will write Norm.
Data equals num paid out delete and we want to delete from Norm data and we want to get rid of the final
point.
So the end point okay.
And then let me get rid of this printout line here.
And so that warning goes away.
And then we see this very normal looking distribution which is actually a fairly straightforward transform
of all of these numbers so that was pretty fun.
Pretty insightful you learned how to work with different kinds of distributions shape distributions
into distributions of other shapes.
And this is actually a transformation that has real practical value because many algorithms in statistics
in machine learning and other aspects of data science and in deep learning actually require or the analysis
make assumptions that the values are distributed in a Gaussian or somewhat Gaussian way.
So it's pretty handy to know how to transform any non normal distribution into a normal distribution.